
h2. About

This is a collection of "Jekyll":https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll plugins and generators that I've written for use on "recursive-design.com":http://recursive-design.com/. 

h2. License

The plugins are distributed under the "MIT License":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_license. See the "License.txt":http://recursive-design.com/code/p/jekyll-plugins/source/tree/master/LICENSE.txt file for details.

h2. Installation

To install the plugins simply put them in a directory named <em>_plugins</em> in your project directory.

h2. Bug Reports

If you come across any problems, please "create a ticket":http://recursive-design.com/code/p/jekyll-plugins/issues/ and we'll try to get it fixed as soon as possible.

h2. Want to make your own plugins?

More information on the Jekyll plugin architecture is available from the "Jekyll wiki":https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/Plugins.

<hr/>

h1. generate_projects.rb

A generator that creates project pages for Jekyll sites from git repositories. 

This was inspired by the project pages on GitHub, which use the project _README_ file as the index page. It takes git repositories, and automatically builds project pages for them using the _README_ file, along with downloadable zipped copies of the projects themselves (for example, the project page for this "plugin repository":http://recursive-design.com/projects/jekyll-plugins/ is auto-generated with this plugin).

h2. Usage

To use it, simply drop the _generate_projects.rb_ script into the <em>_plugins</em> directory of your Jekyll site. Next, create a <em>_projects</em> folder in the base of your Jekyll site. This folder should contain _.yml_ files describing how to build a page for your project. Here is an example (<em>_projects/jekyll-plugins.yml</em>):

{% highlight yaml %}
layout:     default
title:      Jekyll Plugins
repository: git://recursive-design.com/jekyll-plugins.git
published:  true
{% endhighlight %}

h2. How it works

When you compile your Jekyll site, the plugin will download the git repository of each project in your <em>_projects</em> folder, create an index page from the _README_ file (using the specified layout), and create a downloadable _.zip_ file of the project. The goal is to automate the construction of online project pages, keep them in sync with _README_ documentation, and provide an up-to-date zip archive for download.

h2. Required files

Your project's git repository should contain:

* _README_ : The contents of this will be used as the body of your project page will be created from. Any extension other than .markdown, .textile or .html will be treated as a .textile file.
* _versions.txt_ : Contains the version string (eg 1.0.0). Used when naming the downloadable zip-file (optional). If the _version.txt_ file is not available, a _YYYYMMDDHHMM_ timestamp will be used for the version instead.

h2. Required gems

* git (>= 1.2.5)
* rubyzip (>= 0.9.4)

h2. Available _config.yml settings

* _project_dir_ : The subfolder to compile projects to (default is 'projects').

h2. Available YAML settings

* _repository_ : Git repository of your project (required).
* _layout_ :     Layout to use when creating the project page.
* _title_ :      Project title, which can be accessed in the layout.
* _published_ :  Project won't be published if this is false.

<hr/>

h1. generate_categories.rb

A generator that creates category pages for Jekyll sites (for example our "plugin category":http://recursive-design.com/blog/category/plugin/).

h2. Usage

To use it, simply drop the _generate_categories.rb_ script into the ==_plugins== directory of your Jekyll site. 

You should also copy the "category_index.html":http://recursive-design.com/code/p/jekyll-plugins/source/tree/master/layouts/category_index.html file to the <em>_layouts</em> directory of your own project. This file is provided as an example layout, and obviously you can change the HTML above as you see fit.

h2. How it works

When you compile your Jekyll site, this plugin will loop through the list of categories in your site, and use the layout above to generate a page for each one with a list of links to the individual posts.

h2. Included filters

* _category_links_ : Outputs the list of categories as comma-separated links.
* _date_to_html_string_ : Outputs the post.date as formatted html, with hooks for CSS styling.

h2. Available _config.yml settings

* _category_dir_ : The subfolder to build category pages in (default is 'categories').
* _category_title_prefix_ : The string used before the category name in the page title (default is 'Category: ').

<hr/>

h1. generate_sitemap.rb

A simple generator that creates a _sitemap.xml_ page for Jekyll sites, suitable for submission to Google etc (for example the _sitemap.xml_ for "recursive-design.com":http://recursive-design.com/sitemap.xml).

h2. Usage

To use it, simply drop the _generate_sitemap.rb_ script into the <em>_plugins</em> directory of your Jekyll site.

h2. How it works

When you compile your Jekyll site, the plugin will loop through the list of pages in your site, and generate an entry in _sitemap.xml_ for each one.

<hr/>

h1. Change history

* *Version 0.1.3 (2011-01-06)* : Fixed pygments code formatting bug introduced in generate_projects.rb v0.1.2.
* *Version 0.1.2 (2011-01-06)* : Add generated pages to the Site::pages list, to stop them being deleted automatically by Site::cleanup(); Fixed a file extension problem with _generate_projects.rb_. 
* *Version 0.1.1 (2010-12-10)* : Use _mtime_ instead of _ctime_ for sitemap modification dates; Fixed sitemap extension bug.
* *Version 0.1.0 (2010-12-08)* : Initial release.